README.md, before:

Starting point:

> Write a fully functioning ArgoCD generator plugin (including the Dockerfile or equivalent to create the actual image either in Docker format or OCI format, and the command line to generate it) that can turn helm.cattle.io/v1 object HelmChart into the Argo equivalent (picking the chart and its values from spec.chart, spec.version, spec.repo, spec.valuesContent). There must be the minimal source code for the plugin, preferably in Go and built statically as simply and quickly as possible, with minimal imports (no matter the chosen language -- the goal is single binary, tiny OCI / Dockerfile with fewest build steps, fewest dependencies, while still turning that YAML into different output understood by ArgoCD generator). Include detailed instructions on how to configure ArgoCD to use this new image. Invent the image name.

Instead of using `quay.io/my-org/argocd-helmchart-generator:v1.0.0`, removed hostname for now and using `argo-generator-from-cattle-helm:v1.0.0`.

Renamed binary from `helmchart-generator` to `argo-generator-from-cattle-helm`.

`kubectl patch deployment argocd-repo-server -n argocd --patch-file argocd-repo-server-patch.yaml` might work, but ideally we'd apply using our argo app + helmchart.

`kubectl edit -n argocd argocd-cm` needs to add the following data:

```
  applicationset.generators.plugins: |
    - name: helmchart-generator
      command:
        - helmchart-generator
```

An applicationset will need to use it then:

```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationSet
metadata:
  name: my-helm-charts
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  generators:
  - plugins:
      - name: helmchart-generator
        input:
          # This path will be passed to your plugin
          path: "path/to/your/helmchart/definitions"
        repo:
          # The source repo where the HelmChart objects are defined
          url: "https://github.com/your-org/your-git-repo.git"
          # The revision of the repo
          revision: "HEAD"
  template:
    metadata:
      # The name of the generated ArgoCD Application
      name: '{{name}}'
      # The namespace where the application will be created
      namespace: argocd
    spec:
      project: "default"
      source:
        repoURL: '{{repoURL}}'
        chart: '{{chart}}'
        targetRevision: '{{version}}'
        helm:
          values: '{{values}}'
      destination:
        # Deploy the chart to the same namespace as the HelmChart object's metadata
        namespace: '{{namespace}}'
        server: "https://kubernetes.default.svc"
```



## Config Management Plugins (CMPs)

(generated explanation)

* Purpose: To teach Argo CD how to render a new type of Kubernetes manifest. Its job is to take source files and turn them into standard Kubernetes YAML.
* Answers the question: "For a single Application, how do I take these source files and produce the final Kubernetes manifests to be deployed?"
* Who uses it: The argocd-repo-server. It is invoked during the sync process of an individual Application resource.
* Input: The path to an application's source code.
* Output: A stream of valid Kubernetes YAML manifests (Deployment, Service, ConfigMap, etc.).
* Helm Chart values.yaml Configuration: configs.cmp.plugins and repoServer.extraContainers.

## ApplicationSet Generator Plugins:

(generated explanation)

* Purpose: To discover parameters and generate multiple Application resources automatically.
* Answers the question: "How do I find all the things in my repository/cloud/etc. that should become Argo CD Applications?"
* Who uses it: The argocd-applicationset-controller. It uses this plugin to feed its list-based generator.
* Input: A path specified in the ApplicationSet resource.
* Output: A JSON object containing a list of parameters (e.g., chart, version, repoURL, name). These parameters are then used to stamp out Application resources from a template.
* Helm Chart values.yaml Configuration: configs.cm."applicationset.generators.plugins" and repoServer.initContainers/volumeMounts (the plugin binary is still hosted on the repo-server).

Actual non-generated proposal for applicationset plugin generator:

https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/proposals/applicationset-plugin-generator/


## Why the latter?

(generated)

Your original request was to: turn helm.cattle.io/v1 object HelmChart into the Argo equivalent

The "Argo equivalent" of a deployed Helm chart is an Argo CD Application resource.

Your goal is not to render the HelmChart custom resource itself. Your goal is to find all the HelmChart custom resources in a Git repository and use their spec fields as parameters to create new Application resources.

If you used a CMP, you would create a single Argo CD Application that points to a directory of your HelmChart objects. The CMP would then run and... output the same HelmChart objects as YAML. It wouldn't create other Application resources. This doesn't achieve your goal.

By using an ApplicationSet Generator Plugin, you create an ApplicationSet resource that points to the directory. The generator plugin runs, finds all your HelmChart objects, and outputs a list of parameters. The ApplicationSet controller then uses this list to generate a distinct Argo CD Application for each HelmChart it found. This perfectly matches your requirement.

Commit message:

Taking note of the new name ghcr.io/ivucica/argo-generator-from-cattle-helm

README.md, after:

Starting point:

> Write a fully functioning ArgoCD generator plugin (including the Dockerfile or equivalent to create the actual image either in Docker format or OCI format, and the command line to generate it) that can turn helm.cattle.io/v1 object HelmChart into the Argo equivalent (picking the chart and its values from spec.chart, spec.version, spec.repo, spec.valuesContent). There must be the minimal source code for the plugin, preferably in Go and built statically as simply and quickly as possible, with minimal imports (no matter the chosen language -- the goal is single binary, tiny OCI / Dockerfile with fewest build steps, fewest dependencies, while still turning that YAML into different output understood by ArgoCD generator). Include detailed instructions on how to configure ArgoCD to use this new image. Invent the image name.

Instead of using `quay.io/my-org/argocd-helmchart-generator:v1.0.0`, removed hostname for now and using `argo-generator-from-cattle-helm:v1.0.0`. Then moved to releases as `ghcr.io/ivucica/argo-generator-from-cattle-helm`.

Renamed binary from `helmchart-generator` to `argo-generator-from-cattle-helm`.

`kubectl patch deployment argocd-repo-server -n argocd --patch-file argocd-repo-server-patch.yaml` might work, but ideally we'd apply using our argo app + helmchart.

`kubectl edit -n argocd argocd-cm` needs to add the following data:

```
  applicationset.generators.plugins: |
    - name: helmchart-generator
      command:
        - helmchart-generator
```

An applicationset will need to use it then:

```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationSet
metadata:
  name: my-helm-charts
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  generators:
  - plugins:
      - name: helmchart-generator
        input:
          # This path will be passed to your plugin
          path: "path/to/your/helmchart/definitions"
        repo:
          # The source repo where the HelmChart objects are defined
          url: "https://github.com/your-org/your-git-repo.git"
          # The revision of the repo
          revision: "HEAD"
  template:
    metadata:
      # The name of the generated ArgoCD Application
      name: '{{name}}'
      # The namespace where the application will be created
      namespace: argocd
    spec:
      project: "default"
      source:
        repoURL: '{{repoURL}}'
        chart: '{{chart}}'
        targetRevision: '{{version}}'
        helm:
          values: '{{values}}'
      destination:
        # Deploy the chart to the same namespace as the HelmChart object's metadata
        namespace: '{{namespace}}'
        server: "https://kubernetes.default.svc"
```



## Config Management Plugins (CMPs)

(generated explanation)

* Purpose: To teach Argo CD how to render a new type of Kubernetes manifest. Its job is to take source files and turn them into standard Kubernetes YAML.
* Answers the question: "For a single Application, how do I take these source files and produce the final Kubernetes manifests to be deployed?"
* Who uses it: The argocd-repo-server. It is invoked during the sync process of an individual Application resource.
* Input: The path to an application's source code.
* Output: A stream of valid Kubernetes YAML manifests (Deployment, Service, ConfigMap, etc.).
* Helm Chart values.yaml Configuration: configs.cmp.plugins and repoServer.extraContainers.

## ApplicationSet Generator Plugins:

(generated explanation)

* Purpose: To discover parameters and generate multiple Application resources automatically.
* Answers the question: "How do I find all the things in my repository/cloud/etc. that should become Argo CD Applications?"
* Who uses it: The argocd-applicationset-controller. It uses this plugin to feed its list-based generator.
* Input: A path specified in the ApplicationSet resource.
* Output: A JSON object containing a list of parameters (e.g., chart, version, repoURL, name). These parameters are then used to stamp out Application resources from a template.
* Helm Chart values.yaml Configuration: configs.cm."applicationset.generators.plugins" and repoServer.initContainers/volumeMounts (the plugin binary is still hosted on the repo-server).

Actual non-generated proposal for applicationset plugin generator:

https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/proposals/applicationset-plugin-generator/


## Why the latter?

(generated)

Your original request was to: turn helm.cattle.io/v1 object HelmChart into the Argo equivalent

The "Argo equivalent" of a deployed Helm chart is an Argo CD Application resource.

Your goal is not to render the HelmChart custom resource itself. Your goal is to find all the HelmChart custom resources in a Git repository and use their spec fields as parameters to create new Application resources.

If you used a CMP, you would create a single Argo CD Application that points to a directory of your HelmChart objects. The CMP would then run and... output the same HelmChart objects as YAML. It wouldn't create other Application resources. This doesn't achieve your goal.

By using an ApplicationSet Generator Plugin, you create an ApplicationSet resource that points to the directory. The generator plugin runs, finds all your HelmChart objects, and outputs a list of parameters. The ApplicationSet controller then uses this list to generate a distinct Argo CD Application for each HelmChart it found. This perfectly matches your requirement.
